## Google Summer of Code @openSUSE

I am Shlok Srivastava, a student in second year of undergraduate degree pursuing Computer Science. I am writing this blog post to describe about my journey in open source or better yet my affiliation with openSUSE which is a significant part of it. I started with Ruby on Rails in my first year of undergraduate degree and kept on leaping forward, learning and experimenting new features. I started my journey with openSUSE a few months back in August when I made my first PR to their project titled 'The Open Source Event Manager' or better called as OSEM.

The open source event manager is a Ruby on Rails web application used by various organizations around the world to host their conferences. It provides interface for patrons to view schedules and register for conferences and a beautiful administrator side which can handle tracks, campaigns, talks, speakers, volunteers, resources and everything that is required to run a conference successfully. It is a self hosted, single tenant solution, where every organization host OSEM on their own servers and hence, are responsible for the uptime and maintenance of the servers. Conference organizers are already quite busy with organizing the conference, and managing servers is not something they want to spend their energy on, which leads to my project proposal...
My Google Summer of Code project which provides a solution to the above problem. After the summer, there will be a hosted version of the OSEM available on which every organizer will be able to register their organizations in the web application itself and manage their conferences without getting a niche into technical details. Not only that, if an organization wants to hosts its own version it can still use our application and host it on their servers just like they did before. The project also involves setting up custom domain for conferences and incorporating revenue generating feature for the organizations and the site administrators.

OSEM has a significant code base with 100+ models and controllers combined. This means, introducing a new feature might break ten others if not done carefully. This could have been a huge challenge for me but again, thanks to the contributors and the mentors of the project, the code is elegantly written and commented. It is well maintained on a regular basis with issues and PRs getting addressed frequently. It has huge test coverage and uses Continuous Integration which means no code merges unless all the tests have passed. This is one of the most important reason I chose OSEM. I recommend working on it to every rails enthusiast out there.

Achieving this won't be possible without the help of my mentors. After my first contribution to OSEM, which was nothing but a few bug fixes, I got in touch with Ana and Stella. They helped me with solutions for situations in which I got stuck at for hours initially. Ana María Martínez Gómez was a Google Summer of Code student in  openSUSE in 2016 and a mentor this year. She has a Double Degree in Computer Science and Mathematics from Complutense University of Madrid (Spain). Stella Rouzi  has a degree of Computer Science and Telecommunications from Technological Institution of Serres, Greece. She got affiliated to OSEM as a Google summer of Code student as well and has been a mentor since. She was the one to take out time and review all my PRs to OSEM.  Hernan Schmidt, has been a constant inspiration and is the mentor for my proposal. He also has a Computer Science degree from Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile and currently a Senior Rails Developer at SUSE. He is friendly, inspiring and a person to look up to beyond doubt. My present and future contributions wouldn’t have been possible without my mentors. Thanks for guiding me on the right path. I will always be thankful to you. Not everyday you get to write about your mentors so, I have to tell them that I will owe a significant share of my achievement to them.

That’s it for now. A lot of work waiting for me. I’ll be writing again after my first evaluation. Signing off! :)
